<script src="../dtm.js"></script>
<script>
function playNext(elem) {
    try {
        var code = elem.nextElementSibling.getElementsByClassName('prettyprint source')[0].textContent;
        eval(code);
    } catch (e) {}
}

function playPrev(elem) {
    try {
        var code = elem.previousElementSibling.getElementsByClassName('prettyprint source')[0].textContent;
        eval(code);
    } catch (e) {
        alert(e);
    }
}
</script>

Data-to-Music (DTM) API is a JavaScript library that enables real-time data-driven sound synthesis and sequencing in web browsers. 

# What is "data-driven" sound synthesis?

Basically, DTM aims to map any data (in the form of `dtm.data` object) to a real-time stream of sound expressions (the `dtm.music` object). Mapping data to sound is often called "sonification" (cf. visualization, but use sound instead of visuals), and there is quite a long history of practices and researches on it (See [The Sonification Handbook](http://sonification.de/handbook/)). Among the techniques introduced in the Sonification Handbook, DTM particularly enables a kind of parameter mapping sonification (PMSon) technique, but its flexibility can be much higher than simple synthesis parameter controls used in the existing PMSon. DTM allows low-level synthesis at audio-sample level, as well as high-level sequencing with rhythms and multi-voice synchronization. In this tutorial, we will walk through some of such techniques to create musically expressive sound out of any data.

# The structure and design of DTM

DTM has 3 main modules: The `dtm.data`, `dtm.to`, and `dtm.music`. The `to` module is an advanced / experimental mapper module that you might not need to worry about for now. Let's focus on the `data` and `music` modules (objects).

## dtm.data module


method chaining, 

We can either manually create a data object,
```javascript
var a = dtm.data(1, 2, 3);
```

load existing data,
```javascript
dtm.web(url, function (result) {
  var b = result; 
});
```
or generate 
```javascript
var c = dtm.range(10);
var d = dtm.sin();
```


For more examples, please see 
and the API reference



## dtm.music module


can apply various analyses and transformations to data successively, but they all happen instantly (limited by the speed of your computer). The `music` object basically translates such instantaneous data into a real-time stream of sound. 



