<script src="../dtm.js"></script>
<script>
function playNext(elem) {
    try {
        var code = elem.nextElementSibling.getElementsByClassName('sunlight-highlight-javascript')[0].textContent;
        eval(code);
    } catch (e) {}
}

function playPrev(elem) {
    try {
        var code = elem.previousElementSibling.getElementsByClassName('sunlight-highlight-javascript')[0].textContent;
        eval(code);
    } catch (e) {
        alert(e);
    }
}
</script>

The dtm.data is the main unit for handling with data in DTM, including storing, transforming, analyzing, and passing itself to other modules. Here, we cover the basic operations of the dtm.data.

# Basics

Creating a data object and assigning values

    var arr = dtm.data([0, 1, 2])
    arr.set([3, 4, 5])
    arr.set(['hello', 'world'])

Note that when every value is of the number type, the content is automatically casted to the Float32Array type. In general, you should avoid mixing different value types (e.g., strings, numbers, and booleans)

Retrieving values

    var arr = dtm.data([0, 1, 2])
    arr.get() // -> [0, 1, 2]
    arr.val // -> [0, 1, 2]: This is a shorthand for for .get()
    arr.get(0) // -> 0
    arr.get(-1) // -> 2
    arr.get([0, 2]) // -> 0, 2


Retrieving the basic statistics

    var arr = dtm.data([0, 1, 2, 3, 4])
    arr.get('len') // -> 5
    arr.len // -> 5: This is a shorthand for .get('len')
    arr.get('mean') // -> 2
    arr.get('sum') // -> 10
    arr.get('type') // -> 'string'
    arr.get('min') // -> 0
    arr.get('max') // -> 4
    

Retrieving values as new arrays
    
    var arr = dtm.data([0, 1, 2])
    arr.col([0, 2]) // -> dtm.data([0, 2])


# The dtm.data sub-types
When we load data, they are stored in a dtm.data in multi-column structure. In other words, it creates a dtm.data containing multiple dtm.datas as its elements.

    dtm.load('filepath').then(function (data) {
        data // this is a dtm.data with the value of multiple dtm.datas
    })
    
The dtm.generator is also returns a dtm.data.

    waveform = dtm.gen('sine')
    waveform.range(0, 10).clip(3, 6).fit(100).repeat(3)


## Storing and cloning 
Cloning is very useful if you want to transform a single source into multiple output. Without cloning, transformation methods will always change the array itself, and you may not be able to reuse certain states. 

    var arr = dtm.data([0, 1, 2])
    var copy = arr.clone()
    
    copy.add(1).val // -> [1, 2, 3]
    arr.val // -> [0, 1, 2]


Shorthand: you can clone an array by calling the dtm.data variable as a function

    var copy = arr()

So you can do

    var arr = dtm.data([0, 1, 2])
    arr().add(1).val // -> [1, 2, 3]
    arr.val // -> [0, 1, 2]

Recall the original when the array was first created. This is useful if you want to get the raw data, etc.

    arr.reset()
    arr.original() // Alias


# Basic musical transformations
Intervals to beats

    var clave = dtm.a([3,3,2+2,2,4]).itob()


# Some musical examples
Creating a sequence of decaying envelope

	// The typical clave rhythm sequence, with varying volume
	var clave = [1,0,0,0.5, 0,0,1,0, 0,0,0.5,0, 1,0,0,0];

	var env = dtm.data(clave) // Wrap the native array
		.block(1) // This creates a nested array, looking like [[1],[0],[0],[0.5], etc.]
		.map(function (v) {
			return dtm.gen('decay').mult(v); // For each blocked value v, generate a decaying envelope
		})
		.unnest(); // Reduce the blocked-arrays back to a single-dimensional array

	dtm.synth().play()
		.amp(env)
		.dur(clave.length * 0.1); // Each note to be 0.1 second

<button onclick="playPrev(this)">Listen</button>

Time-stretching audio

    dtm.synth('sample.wav').play()
        .wt(function (a) {
            var hopSize = 512;
            var stretchFactor = 2;
            return a.block(1024, hopSize, 'hamm').ola(hopSize * stretchFactor);
        });

<button onclick="playPrev(this)">Listen</button>

Generating harmonics for the wavetable

    a = dtm.a([1,0,1,0,0.5,0.3,0.7,1]); // magnitude of each harmonic partial
    a.map(function (v, i) {
        return dtm.gen('sine').size(1024).freq(i+1).mult(v);
    }).sum();
    
    dtm.synth().wt(a).amp(0.3).play()

<button onclick="playPrev(this)">Listen</button>

# Modeling array transformations





# Extending the functionarity








# Basics of loading and accessing data

With the dtm.data module, data (e.g., csv, JSON, audio file, image, and some web data via REST API) are loaded or acquired asynchronously, and we can use a callback function to access them when they are ready.

    dtm.data('filepath' callback);
    
    function callback(d) {
        // d is the data object that you loaded
    }

If you are loading your own file, the file path should be a relative path in your application (e.g., 'data/sample.csv'), not a local or HTTP URL (e.g., 'file:///c:/data/sample.csv' or 'http://mywebsite.com/sample.csv', otherwise the same-origin policy of your web browser will block the loading of the data.

The dtm.data also returns a promise object that can be accessed elsewhere later. Use obj.then() method
    
    var p = dtm.data('filepath')
    p.then(callback);

The dtm.load is an alias for dtm.data, and you can do

    dtm.load('filepath').then(callback);

Using an anonymous function as the callback, for example, you can access the content of the data in the following way:
    
    dtm.data('filepath').then(function (data) {
        data.get('size') // -> {row: n, col: m}
        data.get('keys') // -> ['foo', 'bar', etc.]
    
        data.col(0) // -> dtm.array
        data.col('foo') // -> dtm.array
    
        data.row(0) // -> dtm.array
    });

The loaded data is stored in a nested (multi-dimensional) dtm.array format. 

If you want to load custom files, you can prompt the user (or yourself) to load local files via the HTML5 input element. In the input element tag, set a event listener function like onchange="myFileLoadFunc(this)", then in JavaScript, 
    
    function myFileLoadFunc(elem) {
        dtm.data(elem.files, function (d) {
            // 
        });    
    }





